we have a team of correspondents
covering all angles of this story TK Abu
AUM is live for us inside Gaza Muhammad
Jam Jun is in West Jerusalem Charles
statford joins us from Tel Aviv and
Imran Khan is in rala in the occupied
West Bank I want to start with you TK
who is live in Gaza what's the situation
where you are it's heading into the
evening in Gaza how are residents
preparing for another night of
strikes
uh well uh right now the uh Israeli
drones are covering all the sky of the
Gaza Strip looking for the next Target
as gazans are waiting for the new
Israeli attacks over their houses and
their infrastructure from time to time
the Israeli Naval forces are destroying
main Coastal roads in order to crack
down any possible infiltration attempt
to the Israeli adjacent Coastal uh towns
um terms of the Israeli uh let's say
crimes against Palestinians the uh
victims of Palestinians today are
increasing and one of the most prominent
victims that were uh killed today by the
Israeli air strikes is abua Family inuz
inuz Village Eastern of kanun governate
Simply the uh family has been wiped out
from the Civil registry uh more than 22
members were killed oh my gosh uh sound
of explosion right
now explain just what's happening where
you are cuz that certainly sounded very
close to you uh now uh we have heard a
sound of explosion inside uh the Gaza
Strip uh actually this explosion uh was
uh widely overhead in the uh on the in
the Gaza Strip uh till now uh we cannot
really uh locate the place and the
location of the uh of the uh explosion
or the bombardment simply because it's
absolutely dark and uh we cannot clearly
see here in a very good way but you can
generally hear uh throughout the
background that the Israel restarted
again launching air strikes against
Palestinians inside the Gaza Strip it's
important to mention that Abu Daka
family has wiped out from the Civil
registry more than 22 members were uh
killed by the Israeli occupation uh Air
Forces uh seven of them were children
and till this current moment civil uh
teams are trying to evacuate six members
who are still stuck under the reels of
the destroyed house uh simply it becomes
so obvious through the uh Israeli policy
of targeting that Israel does not knock
the door it directly hits civilians uh
amed's uh International uh neg
negligence about what's happening in uh
the Gaza Strip and Amed uh no clear
mediation to stop the conflict conflict
erupted between uh the Hamas movement
and the Israeli occupation Army yeah t
the Israeli Prime Minister has been
warning people near the Gaza Strip to
evacuate but that's certainly not a
possibility for many Palestinians is
it uh Main in fact B Palestinians uh
have already evacuated the houses
especially Palestinians who are living
close to the borders in eastern areas uh
they received different notice and
messages on their C from the Israeli
occupation forces informing them to
evacuate their house before being
targeted and act oh my gosh another
explosion in the same place it seems uh
it was little bit over here um if you
need to
take let us know it's okay it's okay
it's a bit far away but it's over here
at night uh it's important to mention
that uh Palestinians now are displaced
from their original houses now into the
owner schools inside the Gaza Strip
which turned into safe shelters uh for
them meanwhile uh a school today has
been hit by the Israeli air strikes
without making clear uh let's say uh
differentiation between uh civil and
militans uh generally so uh the Gaza
Strip situation is detroying and there
is an explosion as you can clearly see
on the back ground L it's going to be a
little bit heavy right now it's
absolutely high you're going to right
now overhear it
I think this building has been leveled
to the ground uh throughout an air
strike that had been carried out by the
Israeli Air Forces this is the night
inside the Gaza Strip everything turned
upside down the lives generally derating
due to the wide range of attacks carried
out by the occupation forces oh my gosh
okay T we're going to leave it there and
we'll cross back to you throughout the
evening it certainly sounds like it is a
dynamic situation we're seeing live
pictures from G and given it is the
night time it's difficult to see but we
are seeing the sky being lit up by air
strike so thank you so much for that
comprehensive coverage that was TK Abu
AUM in
[Applause]
Gaza and yumna Al visited an area where
civilians have been seeking shelter in
Gaza currently here at one of the unwa
schools where more than 2,000 people
have taken this school as shelter the
people that are in this school have
moved from their homes that were uh
across the or adjacent to the Israeli
gazam borders now they have all moved
here some of them moved uh late last
night while others came here this
morning also some of the families that
we have met have had their homes
destroyed and that's why they had to
come here to the honor schools for
shelter H had told us that it has
prepared 44 schools in total 44 schools
and shelters all together across the
Gaza Strip for the displaced families
they have also said that over
22,000 people have been displaced and
are now taking shelter in their schools
these Palestinians families have
experienced the beinging of their homes
and the displacement many times before
some families here say that this is not
the first or the second or even the
third time those people who have their
homes adjacent to the border every
single time there is any kind of
escalation they are forced to flee their
homes because there are they are afraid
of artillery fire they're afraid of the
uh air strikes that uh bombard their
homes as the uh first bombardments take
place we're bringing you these pictures
from one of the 44 un schools available
for the
Palestinian displaced families across
the Gaza
[Music]
[Applause]
Strip muhamad Jam jum is standing by for
us in West Jerusalem hello there Mo the
cabinet as we were reporting on at the
start of the show has approved the
declaration of war talk us through what
that
means yeah that's right Emily and yeah
let's just try to take this step by step
right now to explain to our viewers
where we are when it comes to this
declaration of war of course we heard
yesterday from prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu that basically he said the
country is is at War then you had the
cabinet meeting the cabinet approved the
declaration of war that means that the
Prime Minister and the defense minister
can essentially make decisions going
forward without having to consult the
cabinet when it comes to every specific
action what happens next is that this
goes to a specific committee within the
country's Parliament the knesset uh that
committee will vote on the declaration
of war they will well it is expected
they will approve the declaration of war
and then after that at some point POS
possibly later in the day tomorrow uh
we're told that the Prime Minister will
go in front of the knesset in front of
Parliament and will then declare that
the country is officially at war that
essentially formalizes it Le formalizes
it legalizes the war declaration going
forward now um there's a lot of concern
as to what this means going forward uh
you have a lot of people here that are
concerned about what exactly is
happening uh with Israel's border with
Lebanon and how much tension there is
the many people here expect that after
this declaration of war um is formalized
in the knesset that at some point there
will be a ground Invasion into Gaza so
that's another concern right now uh you
also have a lot of people speculating
about the possible political
ramifications for the Prime Minister um
the fact that something that's
considered to be such a huge
intelligence failure occurred on his
watch that's something that people think
that he's going to have to reconcile
with at some point now at the moment you
are seeing signs amongst the political
classes here that people are going to be
essentially rallying around the flag
uniting you have members of the
opposition who have offered to join a
Unity government with the Prime Minister
you have the Prime Minister who has also
said that he's willing to uh to look
into these overtures uh moving forward
so a lot of moving Parts we're expecting
to hear a lot more details in the hours
and the days to come Emily Muhammad
you've been speaking to a number of
people on the ground what have they been
saying so Emily throughout the day I've
been speaking to people in occupied East
Jerusalem and in West Jerusalem and they
are still very much in a State of Shock
as to what happened people throughout
the day telling me that they never
thought they would have seen something
like this take place uh in a country
where the security services are
considered to be so vaunted they have
such a rep reputation for thoroughness
uh many of them have asked How Could An
intelligence failure like this have
happened at a time like this uh they are
just still very much processing what
happened uh they are saying many of them
have told me that they believe that what
happened was far worse than what
happened during uh the Omer war in 1973
uh and they're very worried about what
exactly is going to be happening next
Emily Muhammad thanks so much for the
update Muhammad Jam Jun
there Let's cross to Charles traford now
who's in Tel Aviv for us Charles what's
the situation from a military
perspective we're hearing there was a
substantial there is the chance of a
substantial ground invasion of
Gaza well yes that's uh what all
intimations certainly from the Israeli
military are suggesting we know in the
South South certainly of of Tel Aviv um
our correspondent throughout the day has
reported seeing tanks and heavy
artillery moving towards uh the Gaza
Strip we uh also know that there could
be tens if not more than that hundreds
of thousands of Israeli soldiers that
are certainly either being put on
standby that are or moving in that
direction we know what a complicated
operation it could be also let's not
forget um you know the amount of Israeli
soldiers that were lost during the
2014 uh invasion of Gaza but all by all
intents and purposes it seems as if some
sort of ground offensive could well take
place indeed a sea offensive as well an
offensive from the sea and we just heard
those incredible air strikes those thuds
those attacks that are ongoing in Gaza
as well so you can only imagine the
sheer Terror of the more than two
million gazans that are often described
as living in the largest prison in the
world meanwhile the situation here in
Tel Aviv has been quiet for the majority
of the day um but there is a very
strange atmosphere here the streets are
virtually empty businesses are closed um
and Israelis and Palestinians living
here are are are very concerned about
any kind of escalation we visited um one
of the sites where one of the
150 um Palestinian launched missiles
landed in the center of the city uh last
night that hit a business completely
destroyed it people very distraught one
woman saying that she was utterly
horrified by what was going on and the
level of suffering being experienced by
both sides in her words she said but at
least I have somewhere to hide so um
there is a great sense of sort of
trepidation here as indeed all
indications suggest that there is going
to be some very sizable Israeli military
response in Gaza and as you mentioned
we're already hearing and seeing that uh
this evening Charles the death toll has
risen considerably today Sunday to more
than 650 Israelis including the deaths
of dozens of people at that dance party
in southern Israel essentially right
near the Gaza Strip how is that attack
being received that that such a surprise
attack could
happen as I say people are in an utter
sense of
a sense of shock they want answers they
want to know how such an attack could
have happened and as we heard Muhammad
alluding to there you know they want
answers from the intelligence service
they want answers from the military um
there is increasing video evidence of
huge great gaps in the security how
could Hamas Fighters um penetrate that
fence seemingly broad daylight with uh
with such ease military analysts here in
in in Israel will say that um the
military had left their guard down in
that area it was obviously the Yum kipo
holiday they also points to the fact
that a lot of Israeli military resources
from Gaza have in recent months been
redirected to the occupied West Bank um
and and that could have have have caused
what has has turned out to be such an
unprecedented and massive attack but
yeah the pictures coming out of Southern
Israel are absolutely shocking and and
having a huge effect on the morale of
Israelis and the Palestinian Israelis
that live in in in this city the South
you know seeing what was reported to be
200 bodies at that party um near the G
strip uh having having been found we've
seen pictures today of firefights
gunfights happening um on on the roads
as we understand um Hamas Fighters that
have um taken control of houses in some
of these settlements reports of them
taking hostages family hostages inside
some of those houses we've seen long
lines of burnt out vehicles that have
been attacked I mean Israelis of of this
generation of the Young Generation and
older Generations have never seen
anything like this happen so uh yeah it
is a a great sense of shock and a great
sense of trepidation as we go into
another night it would not be
inconceivable certainly with respect to
Tel Aviv if there was not um another uh
missile strike from Gaza as I say 150 or
so missiles were fired towards uh
towards Tel Aviv last night so it's
going to be very interesting but there
are a lot of very afraid people right
the way across this country and the
occupied
territories um as uh as day turns toight
on the second day of this war Charles
thanks so much for the update Charles
straford live for us in Tel Aviv and as
he was saying that we can actually see
some of those air strikes happening as
we speak as we go to air in Gaza it's
difficult to
see I we thought we were going to go to
those live pictures but we'll now cross
to Imran Imran Khan is in rala for us uh
Imran have we heard from the Palestinian
Authority at all today which is
Sunday there's been several negotiations
that have been going on uh between the
International Community and the
Palestinian Authority for uh on the
Palestinian Authority's part what they
want to do and they're negotiating with
Egypt right now is for Egypt to open uh
the Raffa border crossing which is in
their territory into Gaza so they can
get in humanitarian aid for those that
need it the most also they're uh very
clear though when they're talking to the
International Community saying that this
is a result of the occupation and uh a
result of the fact that the
International Community simply hasn't
put enough pressure on Israel to lift at
the siege of Gaza to uh stop uh the
occupation of the here in the occupied
West Bank and occupied East Jerusalem uh
in fact but here uh where I am I'm love
right now but generally across the
occupied West Bank uh it's been a show
of support uh for hamus a general strike
was called that was the first thing and
legal offices were shut government
offices were shut schools uh have been
shut shops have been shut anything that
might make a society function and simply
closed down I'm just going to get out
the way and show you this is the
quietest I've actually seen ramala in a
very long time now sporadically
throughout the day there have been uh
protests uh showing support for Hamas uh
within Manara Square which you can just
see down there you speak to people here
and what they tell you is very simple if
you treat people like animals you
shouldn't be surprised if they fight
back now this fight back has taken uh
the people in the occupied West Bank by
surprise they didn't think they would
see anything like this in their
lifetimes but they are coming out and
showing support for Hamas and it just
goes to show you uh that that feeling is
actually something that's been seen not
just here Ina but across the occupied
West Bank now what the Israelis have
done within the occupied West Bank is
they've actually shut roads down so for
example you can't get from Bethlehem to
rala you can't get from Janine to Naas
you can't go from Village to Village the
Israelis have effectively turned it into
an archipelago of separation and that's
a deli
move on their part we traveled into R
yesterday we were stopped at the ofair
checkpoint uh whilst they tried to
figure out whether I was actually going
to be allowed uh in to ramala so that's
what's going on right now but like I say
Emily the day of strike and the show of
support uh for Hamas all right we
appreciate the update as always Imran
Khan in rala for us